IT guys in this video we're going to start to create our WordPress theme from the H.T. M-L that we created
in the last video.
So I have a default WordPress installation here.
Haven't added or changed anything.
And what we're going to do is first add the project to Sublime Text.
And so I have it in a folder called WordPress 3P OK that's where my installation is.
And then we're going to go to themes and then we're going to create a new folder here called W.P. news
.
OK.
And we need two files to be able to activate the theme to index start PSAP and we need style dots CSX
for style CSSA we're going to add the comment block and we're going to specify the theme name which
will be W.P. news.
The author
author.
You are my
UPS needs to be a lawyer.
Any of them will do.
Of the description.
OK so description or say news theme or Word Press.
And then the version will just be 1.0.
OK so now we should be able to activate the theme.
Let's go to the back and go to appearance themes and you can see we have W.P. news.
Now I do have a screen shot that I want to add as well.
You should have this in your images folder.
You.
Themes of happy news.
So we're going to paste that in and reload.
Now we have a screen shot.
So let's go ahead and activate it.
If we go in the front end now reload we get a blank page.
All right so let's go back to our Sublime Text and what we're going to do is we're going to open up
our index ph p.
I'm going to copy and paste everything that we have inside the h t m l k so let's open up the Index
index each T.M. that we create.
And the last video and we're just going to copy all of that and then paste that in.
Index ph p k.
So if we save that and go back to the front end we can see everything but it's all just static content
.
OK.
Nothing here is coming from WordPress.
So let's start making it dynamic.
We're going to go to our each symbol tag or place this lang attribute and make it dynamic using p p
language attributes.
Right.
And then in the head area for the char set let's replace that with PH P
blog info and then char set
all right for the title.
We're going to get rid of that and I'm going to paste this in.
So we've used this before we're using the site name.
And then we're going to display the the page title.
If it's the front page then we're going to display this blog in full description.
If it's not there we're going to display whatever the title of the page.
All right so let's save that.
And if you look up in the top here.
Now we have the site name which I have is W.P. news.
And then the description which is just another word press site.
All right.
This stuff we can leave now we want to go down to actually you know what.
One more thing we want to make sure we include the style sheet style CSX.
So right here we're going to say actually you need a link tag you know say rowels style sheet
and let's set this to DHP the blog in fall and then pass it in style sheet underscore you are Al
OK so that should do it.
Now if we go down to where we have our Hetter let's replace the static W.P. news with blog info name
OK we want to do the same thing with the description which we have which we have in our small tags so
I'll change that to description.
OK we'll take a look and there we go.
So now let's take care of the menu.
We're going to have to create a new file called functions start ph p.
And then I open up some peach tags and we're going to create a function for theme's support.
So we'll call it W.P. news underscore theme support.
And we just want to register our NAV menus so register
nav menus and that's going to take in an array
with the different menus so primary
primary menu.
OK so in order for this to run we have to put in an ADD action and the hook that we want is after set
up the theme and then we just want our function which is W.P. news themes support.
All right so let's save it and then go back into index and then we're going to replace this whole UL
with a function called W.P. nav menu
.
And this is going to take in an array
and we want to specify the theme location
which is going to be primary and then we also want to specify a Menu class.
OK because we had a class attached to the UL that we just deleted.
So that's going to be
menue
horizontal and like OK so that should do it and save it.
And if we go to our front end we get this sample page link.
Now it doesn't look like the classes is working.
We take a work
case of CLV the UL has no class.
Hmm.
OK.
You know what it might be because we haven't actually assigned it to the primary spot.
So let's go and reload.
You should now have a menu's option under parents.
So I'm going to say create menu.
Call it main menu.
Let's see down here and the theme locations you want to choose primary and save.
OK if we go back reload.
OK so now it's in effect it was just because we didn't actually assign it to primary.
So let's create a couple of pages just kind of fill out the menu.
All right so we'll have about page and I'm just going to grab some content real quick
.
OK so about all say services
and let's create a page called press release.
OK we can add those to the menu now
save.
And there we go.
So now we have our menu and the last thing I want to do here is break up our index into the header and
footer files.
So let's create a new file and save it as Hetter dot PAGG and then another file called for Peachtree
.
All right.
And then in the index page we're going to grab from the very top down to where the last header tag is
.
OK so we're going to cut that and we're going to replace it with each key.
Get header
ok and then we're going to paste what we have in the header file.
OK.
Now back in the index page let's go from the very bottom
and is actually all we need is the ending.
You know what let's just take the body and the age team I'll tag and we put in get flooder.
OK we'll go with that in the footer file and everything should still look the exact same.
Good.
All right so in the next video we're going to start to work on the word press loop so we can grab posts
.
Obviously we're going to have to create some post as well.
So I will see you in the next video